Document Tasks, Bugs, Epics section of contribution guide (#719)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/development/contribution-guide/_index.en.md

## Bugs, Tasks and Epics

> In GitHub there is only one type of issues. In order to have a more structured view of the current state of a release,
> we distinguish between 3 types of issues: Bugs, Tasks and Epics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to have more structure and clarity, we expand upon the standard GitHub issue and define 3 types of issues: Bugs, Tasks and Epics.
```

### Bugs

> A bug is an issue which capture an error or fault in the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A bug is an issue which captures an error or fault in the project.
```

> When a bug is met the criteria of a blocker bug, it is considered as a blocker bug.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a bug meets the criteria of a blocker bug, it is considered a blocker bug.
```

> When a bug is met the criteria of a blocker bug, it is considered as a blocker bug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a bug meets the criteria of a blocker, it is considered a blocker bug.
```

#### Blocker Criteria

> A blocker bug is defined as something that prevents the system from running, or blocks the system from testing (either a regression

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A blocker bug is defined as a bug that prevents the system from running, or blocks the system from testing (either a regression
```

> on an existing feature, with the same test as used previously, or a new feature which can’t be tested).

Reviewer 2: Should we also document how/when blocker is decided?

Or is there somewhere else you think it should go?

Author: Here is the description of what is the blocker criteria.
I think that how/when we decide if a bug is a blocker should be part of the release process / cycle section,

Reviewer 2: I think "how" should be described here as it's closely related.

The "when" is part of release section

> on an existing feature, with the same test as used previously, or a new feature which can’t be tested).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an issue prevents a feature (either new or existing) from operating correctly and there's no sufficient workaround, it may be deemed as a blocker for a release such that the release cannot proceed until it is addressed.
```

Author: For a timed base releases, a new feature will not block the release.
If a new feature is not ready in time for the release, it should be dropped.

Reviewer: Ok - I updated me suggestion.

### Tasks

A task is a description of a specific work needed to be done. A task can be part of an epic, or a stand-alone.

> If a task is estimated to take more than 1 sprint to worked on, it should be break down to smaller tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a task is estimated to take more than 1 sprint to work on, it should be broken down to smaller tasks, and defined as an epic.
```

> If a task is estimated to take more than 1 sprint to worked on, it should be break down to smaller tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A task defines a specific unit of work that can be stand-alone or part of an epic. A task should be relatively small and fit within the scope of a single sprint otherwise it should be broken down into smaller tasks or perhaps be defined as an epic.
```

### Epics

> An Epic is a series of tasks which are required to accomplish a feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An epic is a collection of tasks which are required to accomplish a feature.
```

> #### Epic Guideline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Epic Guidelines
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Please add dots at end of bullet points, ref:
https://www.instructionalsolutions.com/blog/bulleted-list-punctuation

> * Epics should all live inside enhancements repo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Epics should all be issues inside enhancements repository.
```

> * Epics should all live inside enhancements repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Epics should be issues in the [enhancements repository](https://github.com/submariner-io/enhancements/issues) and created using the [epic template](https://github.com/submariner-io/enhancements/issues/new?assignees=&labels=epic&template=epic.md).
```

> * Only include work directly related to `Submariner` project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Only include work directly related to the Submariner project
```

* Don’t start working on an epic if the design is not done
* Don’t add new epics to a release after the planning is done

> * Have clear and agreed acceptance criteria

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The design should be complete before starting working on an epic
* An epic should not be added to a release after the planning is complete
* Provide clear and agreed-upon acceptance criteria
```

> * Breaking down an epic:
>   * First, use the template to assess any common tasks (i.e. operator support) and open issues for them
>   * Implementation tasks should be up to medium in size
>   * Don't create nested tasks/issues - if a task needs to be broken down, create separate tasks and list them all under the epic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An epic should be decomposed into smaller tasks (implementation, testing, documentation etc) using the design, acceptance criteria and epic template checklist as guidelines
  * Open a GitHub issue for each task in the appropriate repository
  * Each task should be listed under the Work Items section in the epic template
  * Tasks should be small to medium in size and fit within the scope of a single sprint
```

## Bugs, Tasks and Epics

In order to have more structure and clarity, we expand upon the standard GitHub issue and define 3 types of issues:
Bugs, Tasks and Epics.

### Bugs

A bug is an issue which captures an error or fault in the project.
If a bug meets the criteria of a blocker, it is considered a blocker bug.

#### Blocker Criteria

If an issue prevents a feature (either new or existing) from operating correctly and there's no sufficient workaround, it may be deemed as
a blocker for a release such that the release cannot proceed until it is addressed.

### Tasks

> A task defines a specific unit of work that can be stand-alone or part of an epic. A task should be relatively small and fit within

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A task defines a specific unit of work that can be stand-alone or part of an epic. Work on a bug is not a task. A task should be relatively small and fit within
```
(this in reply to Mike's suggestion, GitHub didn't add it to that thread as I hoped)

## Bugs, Tasks and Epics

In order to have more structure and clarity, we expand upon the standard GitHub issue and define 3 types of issues:
Bugs, Tasks and Epics.

### Bugs

A bug is an issue which captures an error or fault in the project.
If a bug meets the criteria of a blocker, it is considered a blocker bug.

#### Blocker Criteria

If an issue prevents a feature (either new or existing) from operating correctly and there's no sufficient workaround, it may be deemed as
a blocker for a release such that the release cannot proceed until it is addressed.

### Tasks

> A task defines a specific unit of work that can be stand-alone or part of an epic. A task should be relatively small and fit within

Reviewer 2: Maybe add explanation that tasks could be a wide variety but generally it would be any work necessary that isnt solving some bug

Author: I think it's self explaining

Reviewer 2: explicit is better than implicit :)

the scope of a single sprint otherwise it should be broken down into smaller tasks or perhaps be defined as an epic.

### Epics

An epic is a collection of tasks which are required to accomplish a feature.

#### Epic Guidelines

* Epics should be issues in the [enhancements repository](https://github.com/submariner-io/enhancements/issues) and created

> using the [epic template](https://github.com/submariner-io/enhancements/issues/new?assignees=&labels=epic&template=epic.md).

Reviewer 2: Please put external links at the bottom of the page for clarity of the source

>   Only include work that is a part of the Submariner project.

Reviewer 2: I would even link `[Submariner projects]` to `https://github.com/submariner-io` to be as clear as possible.

> * Only include work directly related to the Submariner project.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Only include work that is a part of the Submariner project.
```

It seems to me "directly related" could mean lots of things we don't intend. For example, the submariner-addon for ACM or ACM's docs about Submariner seem directly related to Submariner but I think are not efforts we want to track here.

> * The design should be complete before starting working on an epic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The design should be completed before starting working on an epic.
```

* An epic should not be added to a release after the planning is complete.
* Provide clear and agreed-upon acceptance criteria.

> * An epic should be decomposed into smaller tasks (implementation, testing, documentation etc) using the design, acceptance criteria and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An epic should be split into smaller tasks (implementation, testing, documentation etc) using the design, acceptance criteria and
```

"decompose" has a very morbid connotation :)

epic template checklist as guidelines:
  * Open a GitHub issue for each task in the appropriate repository.
  * Each task should be listed under the Work Items section in the epic template.

>   * Tasks should be small to medium in size and fit within the scope of a single sprint.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add an explanation that if a task is larger than that it should either be an epic by itself, or further split into smaller tasks

Author: I would keep the more detailed explanation of a task under the task section :)
